# csc2001f_assignment_3
A hash table used for your Electronic Telephone Directory could result in faster operations.  For this assignment, your goal is to measure how well some popular hash functions will generate hash values with maximum spread and minimal collisions.  Do not implement the whole hash table data structure or attempt to resolve collisions.  All that is required is the hash functions.  Write an application to apply 4 different hash functions to each key in the attached data file.  Assume m=20011 to be the hash table size in all cases.  The worst case hash function, h(x)=1 Hash function 1 (from the slides), to add Unicode values Hash function 2 (from the slides), to add shifted Unicode values Another reasonable function of your choice  The data you are given (see attached file) has the following format:  51850 Kianna Squares, Terre Haute|552.531.3674|Gislason Kenna 17386 Stephanie Parks, Palm Springs|018-594-2935 x716|Hickle Leone 97354 Queen Squares, Birmingham|(332)985-4036|Moore Gilbert The fields are: address, telephone number, name.  Every full name has a last name and a first name.  The fields are separated by "|".  The lines of the file are unsorted.  When loading this data, the key you must use is the full name.    In order to test how well a hash function generates unique and dispersed values, you must use the information-theoretic notion of entropy that calculates the information content of a random variable.  You can read about entropy on Wikipedia.  In our case, the hash function is the random variable.  Higher entropy is better.  Example entropy calculation Suppose m=7, and we hash n=10 items to produce the following sequence of hash values: 0,2,4,2,6,0,0,5,2,4 Then, the probability of each hash value P(x) can be calculated by counting occurrences of each value and dividing by n, to give us: 0.3, 0, 0.3, 0, 0.2, 0.1, 0.1 For each hash value, we can then compute "-P(x) Log (P(x))", to give us: 0.16, 0, 0.16, 0, 0.14, 0.1, 0.1 The entropy is then the sum of the above values: H(X) = 0.65 Your tasks are as follows:  Write an application to generate the hash values. Calculate the entropy of each hash function.  Use a spreadsheet or simple program. Write a report (of up to 10 pages) that includes the following: What the problem is (at most half page). The design and implementation of your hash functions (at most 2 pages). A sample of hash values to illustrate the differences for the different functions. The design of your comparison experiments, results, discussion and conclusions.
